Can I team up
with you?
Sure.
Alright, everyone, put the plate you received
into the box you were given.
Pick up the hammer on your workbench.
When I count down from three,
break the plate.
Three, two, one.
Smash it!
You do it.
It's fine, you do it.
Alright, you have 30 minutes
to restore the porcelain plates you smashed.
Use the tools provided on your workbench.
Begin.
Isn't it broken into too many pieces?
Professor, but we don't know how to glue it.
Use your talents.
Hurry up.
I... I think I smashed it into too many pieces.
I'm fine.
Hurry, hurry.
Impossible.
I shouldn't have hit it so hard.
This is ridiculous.
Do you need my help?
No.
I don't need it.
Then help me throw it away.
Time's up.
Stop what you're doing.
Let me take a look
and check the fruits of your labor.
This one fails.
This fails.
Fail.
Is this okay, sir?
This is acceptable, right?
Thank you, sir.
Did you try your best?
I tried my best.
I tried my best too.
As long as you tried your best.
Will this pass?
I shouldn't have smashed it to pieces.
It'll do.
65 points.
Only 65?
What?
Did you expect a full score?
If you want a full score,
you can take your diploma and graduate now.
So fierce.
Is it really necessary?
Class, now
pick up the hammers on your workbenches again.
I will break your plates again.
Here.
Oh my God.
We just fixed it.
Okay, excuse me.
Let me take some pieces.
One piece, two pieces.
Excuse me.
I'll take one piece from each group.
Starting now,
you will take the remaining pieces
and restore them again.
No way.
Sir, you took a piece away.
It's incomplete.
How are we supposed to fix it?
Yeah.
Are the porcelain pieces excavated from underground
always complete?
I will check it next class.
Class dismissed. Goodbye.
Goodbye, sir.
Xu Xiao.
Where are you going now?
You don't need to worry about this assignment.
I can finish it by myself.
But we're in the same group.
I'm used to working alone.
Don't worry.
Mr. Yue won't find out.
I want to help too.
I'm glad you teamed up with me.
Otherwise, I would have been left alone.
So,
I want to do my best to help you.
This is...
This is the antique shop where I work.
Work?
Aren't you going to finish the assignment with me?
Why do we
have to come here to do the restoration?
I have my own restoration tools here.
They are more complete than the school's,
which makes it more convenient for restoration.
This set of restoration tools
looks like it has been used for a long time.
It was a gift from someone.
Who is it?
Let's get started.
Okay.
I hope I can help.
Alright.
Let's start mixing the glue now.
Isn't there ready-made glue?
Different types of porcelain
require different types of
adhesives or glue.
We need to make sure the adhesive
in transparency and color
matches the restored porcelain.
So, it's best to mix it ourselves.
Okay.
Three parts of glue A,
and one part of glue B is enough.
Mix them,
and apply it evenly.
You try it.
Okay.
Put them together,
then use your hands to feel the fit.
Don't put your hands near the gap.
You might get pinched.
Do you know how to apply the tape?
I can do this.
Apply the tape
to make the gap more secure.
What is this thing?
Wax sheets.
Usually,
it's hard to restore the missing parts directly.
So we need to use melted wax sheets.
Then we take its shape from the intact areas.
Get the right ratio of plaster and water.
Add water and stir thoroughly.
The next step is to use its fluidity to fill it in
and shape the rough outline.
This step feels like doing DIY.
Making a cake?
It does look a bit like it.
Mr. Fatty!
Stop yelling. Stop yelling.
I'm coming. I'm coming.
I'll feed you.
Why is there a person up there?
He's probably been here the whole time.
Stop yelling, I'm coming!
Has he been up there the whole time?
Stop yelling, I'm begging you.
Who is he?
The boss of this shop.
Xu,
why is there an extra person?
Something's up.
This is my classmate.
We're doing an assignment together.
Coming.
Coming, Mr. Fatty.
Here, catch.
Don't mind him.
He's always like this.
Let's continue.
Okay.
It's almost done, right?
Not even close.
We still need to use 600- and 2000-grit sandpaper
for fine polishing.
Then we'll use a piece of cowhide dipped in jade polishing powder
for finish polishing.
How long will that take?
When you are restoring it,
what's on your mind?
I was thinking about
restoring it as quickly as possible
so I can finish the assignment.
If you only treat it as an assignment
to be completed,
you won't do a good job.
Oh.
Every restoration
is a conversation between the ceramics
and the restorer.
Every gap,
every tiny crack
is it pouring its heart out to us.
But its voice is very soft and quiet.
Only by feeling it with your heart
can you hear their voices.
Look.
The part restored with plaster
has a huge color difference from the original.
If we make it as close to the original color as possible,
wouldn't it look better?
Coloring is not required for exhibition restorations.
But I
still want to restore it completely.
Do you have any paint here?
You know how to mix colors?
I learned a bit of drawing when I was a kid.
But my mom said
learning to draw was too tiring
and unstable,
so I stopped learning later.
Is it okay?
You are very talented.
Xu Xiao.
Can I take this plate
home tonight?
Sure.
Mom.
Cencen,
come here.
I washed some grapes for you.
Okay.
Mom, look at my plate.
It looks nice.
You've shown it to me several times since you got back today.
Are you tired?
You've been doing it all day.
Not tired.
Studying is important,
but your health is more important.
Without a healthy body,
nothing has meaning.
So don't exhaust yourself too much.
I know.
Here, have some grapes.
Here, you have some too.
Yours is too rough.
It's unqualified.
Teacher, what about ours?
Yours is also too rough.
It's unqualified.
What is that gray stuff on your plate?
Plasticine.
You use this to repair the damaged part?
Smart, right?
How is it? It saves trouble, right?
It will deform when Mr. Yue squeezes it later.
Let's see what you do.
Exactly.
Xu Xiao.
Have you repaired your porcelain plate?
Right, right.
When did you restore it?
I didn't see you in the Restoration Room.
We restored it off-campus.
You actually met up off-campus privately.
We just went to finish our assignment.
Really?
Come, let me see yours.
This is all dented.
It fails.
Failed again.
Let me see yours.
I wonder how many people
Mr. Yue will pass this time.
I heard
no one can get credits from his class.
I really tried my best this time.
Yeah.
What do you call this?
Failed.
Failed again.
I told you so.
It wouldn't work.
Failed.
Let me see yours.
Yours is not bad.
You even touched up the colors yourself.
Not bad. Pretty good.
Thank you, sir.
Passed.
What's our score this time?
What was it last time?
Last time was 65.
Seventy.
Alright, class.
Put your plates down,
face down on the table.
Pick up the small hammer on your workbench.
No way.
Yeah, here we go again.
Come on, pick up the hammer.
The hammer again?
What's wrong?
We worked so hard to fix this.
I can't bear to do it.
Stop complaining.
Come on.
Then let me do it.
Three, two, one, smash it.
Let's do this.
I don't get it.
Come on.
Alright, step aside.
Watch out for the shards.
Collecting them again.
Watch your hands.
Here.
I've collected all the porcelain pieces.
Here. Okay.
So many.
Why are you taking them all away?
All the pieces of the broken plates are here.
Can you guys, in just one class,
restore your porcelain plates?
Impossible.
Help, I can't do this at all.
How is that possible?
This is too difficult.
Yeah.
We couldn't even finish the simpler tasks
from the first two classes.
Yeah.
Let alone you guys,
even if experts came,
it would be very difficult to do.
After the founding of the PRC,
our archaeology workers
unearthed a massive amount of
Ming Dynasty blue-and-white porcelain dragon jar fragments.
So many that several warehouses couldn't hold them.
But up to now,
how many do you think have been restored?
100.
200.
20.
10.
None of them.
Up to now,
only 3 pieces have been restored.
3?
Yes.
Cultural relics restoration
takes a long time.
and a persevering attitude.
In these two classes,
you have experienced three times
of tearing down and starting over.
Such a process
in your future lives
will be experienced countless times.
Class,
I hope that
since you have come to this class,
You must establish
the determination to dedicate your life to this profession
and deeply experience
what cultural relics restoration really is.
Let's go.
My legs are sore
from going out for the first time.
Me too.
Let's go get some milk tea.
Cheer up.
What is this called?
Overcoming difficulties.
Okay.
I'm leaving. Bye.
I want half sugar.
Let's go to that same place. Okay?
That place again?
But I think their stuff is good.
Let's go.
My treat today.
Heading home.
Thank you, young master.
Bye.
Bye, bye.
Zhao Xiaocen.
Hold this.
Thanks.
What were you doing just now?
Because it was hard to piece together,
so...
Do you think you can piece it together?
I...
Let's connect on WeChat.
Is that okay?
S-Sure.
Thank you for the band-aid.
You're welcome.
Good night.
Xu Xiao.
What kind of person are you exactly?
What kind of profile picture is this?
Why hasn't he posted anything on his Moments?
I'm doomed.
Time to sleep.
Mr. Liang announced that
we will visit the Imperial Kiln Museum this Friday.
Gather at the school gate at 8:00 a.m. sharp.
My name is...
My name is Zhao Xiaocen.
Sir, I don't know what to say.
Okay.
Cheers!
Come on, cheers! Cheers!
Come on.
Okay.
Cheers, cheers, cheers!
Let's add each other on WeChat.
Is that okay?
How exactly does everyone see me?
This is the place.
Look over there.
It's so big.
It's beautiful.
I come here often.
It looks so fancy.
Students, this is
the director of the Jingdezhen Imperial Kiln Museum,
Director Zhou.
Hello, Director.
Hello, students.
Welcome to the Jingdezhen Imperial Kiln Museum.
This visit
is jointly organized
by the museum and Ceramic University.
I am glad to see so many
young people interested in cultural relics
and their conservation.
Our museum
houses over a thousand pieces of rejected tribute porcelain
from the Yuan, Ming, and Qing imperial kilns,
restored by the Jingdezhen Institute of Ceramic Archaeology.
Many of them are unique and unmatchable.
It's safe to say that one day
isn't enough to see everything thoroughly.
So, I welcome you all
to visit our museum often when you have time.
Okay.
Now,
let me show you around personally.
Okay.
Let's go. This way.
Sorry for the trouble.
The display and design of the Jingdezhen Imperial Kiln Museum...
The layout features connected display cases
alongside individual ones.
Each exhibit
is accompanied by a plaque in both Chinese and English.
You can follow these materials
to keep up with my pace.
Come on.
Keep up, everyone.
Let's go to the exhibition hall over there.
Thank you for your hard work, Director Zhou.
You have no idea.
A cricket pot.
This can also be considered a cultural relic?
These are cricket pots from the Xuande reign of the Ming Dynasty.
Emperor Xuande loved cricket fighting very much.
This student is absolutely right.
Among the people, there are sayings of the "Peaceful Emperor"
and the "Cricket Emperor,"
which refer to Emperor Xuande.
Emperor Xuanzong died of illness at the age of 36.
His eldest son, Zhu Qizhen, succeeded the throne at only eight years old.
Grand Empress Dowager Zhang,
to prevent the young emperor
from becoming obsessed with playthings like his father,
ordered all entertaining items to be removed from the palace.
The cricket pots from the Xuande reign
were thus mostly destroyed.
Later on,
several pieces of blue-and-white porcelain were discovered in Jingdezhen,
allowing these Xuande cricket pots to be restored.
Even the emperor has someone to keep him in check.
No matter what official you are, your mom still bosses you around.
All right, that's all for today's explanation.
I hope through your visit today,
you will fall in love with the imperial kiln and Jingdezhen.
Thank you, Director Zhou.
For the rest of the time,
you can move around freely.
Feel free to explore
wherever you want.
Okay.
Director Zhou, after you.
Wu Jing.
Coming.
Come look at this.
Wow, this is so pretty.
It's beautiful.
Look at this.
There's a duck over there.
A duck?
Pretty.
Like this.
Come.
Three, two, one.
Look at this.
Let me see.
Three-Interconnected-Pot Vessel.
What is this used for?
This is a great unsolved mystery in ceramics.
Ordinary people can't answer you.
Regarding this Three-Interconnected-Pot Vessel,
it lacks documentary records,
and there are no related artifacts for reference.
So the academic community has different opinions on its usage.
Some say it is a medical and sanitary device,
and others say it is an offering vessel in a mosque.
But there is no relevant basis.
You are also a visitor. How do you know so much?
Maybe this is my profession.
Yuexin,
let's take a photo with Ducktor Sui.
Okay.
Come.
Come on.
Coming.
Three, two, one.
What are you doing?
This wall can make sounds.
Didn't you know?
The walls of the entire Imperial Kiln Museum
are built with kiln bricks.
Tapping the kiln bricks gently
causes resonance in the gaps between the bricks,
producing a pleasant sound.
This entire museum
is like an instrument.
Did you hear that?
Do you have time today?
You're here.
I prepared something for you.
Have a seat first.
Wait a moment.
I saw the previous plate was broken,
and you weren't very happy.
So based on my memory
of its size and style,
I made a similar one.
This is just an unglazed body.
It will look very similar to the previous one after firing.
Are you saying you can bring it back to life?
Bring it back to life is an exaggeration.
But if you want,
we can paint it with the original patterns.
You can do it anyway.
What's wrong?
Nothing.
Then the next step is glazing and firing.
Let's give it a name.
A name?
Don't all the porcelains in the museum
have names?
We fired it together.
I think it's very meaningful.
How about
Fish Play Among the Lotus Leaves?
Can't you give it a shorter name?
Then call it Xiao Qing.
Xiao Qing?
Sure.